[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>MARK SHAW: And so
Bobby grew to hate
those mafioso who appeared
and took the Fifth Amendment.
So what did Bobby do?
He wrote this book,
"The Enemy Within."
You can't treat
those kind of people
who just helped your brother get
into the White House that way.
Look at it as to why
Bobby Kennedy wasn't
killed instead of
why Jack Kennedy was,
and that changes everything.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Oh my God.
Wouldn't you have loved to
have met Dorothy Kilgallen?
>>SHAW: Oh my God.
>>NOORY: And gotten the
information she got?
>>SHAW: One of the finest
reporters to have ever lived.
The integrity of that woman.
And they killed
her because she was
too close to the truth
about the JFK assassination.
The same thing with Marilyn.
She should have never
died either, these two
remarkable women.
>>NOORY: What are
the odds, Mark,
of three people who are
intertwined in their lives
all dying within several
years of each other?
>>SHAW: Then Bobby,
obviously, dying in '68.
>>NOORY: 68.
>>SHAW: These were tragic,
tragic, violent times.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NOORY: Well, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
We have a riveting
program for you tonight.
Mark Shaw is a former
criminal defense attorney
and legal analyst for
CNN, ABC, USA Today.
He is a distinguished
investigative reporter,
historian, and as you will find
out, a best-selling author.
>>JOHN KENNEDY: In the
long history of the world,
only a few generations
have been granted
the role of defending freedom
in its hour of maximum danger.
I do not shrink from
this responsibility.
I welcome it.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
I do not believe that any
of us would exchange places
with any other people
or any other generation.
The energy, the
faith, the devotion
which we bring to this
endeavor will light our country
and all who serve it.
And the glow from that fire
can truly light the world.
And so, my fellow
Americans, ask not
what your country
can do for you,
ask what you can do
for your country.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
>>NOORY: What a great
orator he was, Mark Shaw.
>>SHAW: He was.
You see Lyndon Johnson kind of
lurking over there on the side,
thinking I want to be there.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>SHAW: Yes.
>>NOORY: Well, eventually
he was, tragically enough.
>>SHAW: Absolutely.
But you know, again, in the
new book, "Collateral Damage,"
I talk about humanizing
JFK and what we lost,
and we can talk about
that, as a president,
but I think it was a point
in history unlike any other.
We'd had the Depression.
We'd had World War II, Vietnam.
We were into all of that.
But the moment that he was
killed, George, in my opinion,
the world stopped.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>SHAW: The innocence was gone--
>>NOORY: November 22nd, 1963.
>>SHAW: --or something.
Right?
Would you agree?
>>NOORY: I was 13 years old.
I remember my English teacher,
whom I put on the radio
show "Coast to Coast"
several years ago--
>>SHAW: Really.
>>NOORY: --came in crying.
We were kids.
We're 13 years old.
We don't know what's going on.
And she's crying, and she says,
the president's been killed.
It didn't register with us.
>>SHAW: Of course not.
>>NOORY: My parents were upset.
I was out playing hockey that
night, you know, on the street
with my buddies.
>>SHAW: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Because we were kids.
Years later, it sank in
what really happened to us.
And we lost something
that day which we've never
been able to replace, have we?
>>SHAW: I don't
think we have, no.
And it's amazing
that we haven't.
Through all the turmoil
of the years ahead,
you always go back to that
marker of JFK being killed.
And I think that's what led
me into looking into the JFK
assassination.
I was really never
interested in it.
I was a freshman at
Purdue when he was killed,
but I never really
thought about it
through the next few
years and everything.
And then if it's
OK, what triggered
the interest was I wrote
a book about Melvin Belli,
as you know, the--
>>NOORY: Attorney for Ruby.
>>SHAW: --lawyer for Ruby.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>SHAW: I practiced law in
his building in the 1980s,
so I got to know Mr. Belli.
And I decided to write
a book about him.
And so I did.
You know, he represented the
Rolling Stones and Muhammad Ali
and everything.
But then I found
his affiliations
with the mafia, especially
Mickey Cohen, a Los Angeles
gangster.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SHAW: And I got to thinking
about two or three things.
Why in the world was a
civil lawyer like Belli
hired to defend Ruby?
Why did he use that crazy
psychomotor epilepsy insanity
defense?
Why wouldn't he
let Ruby testify?
And that's what led me
into looking into the JFK
assassination, because
I thought there
may be a connection here
between Belli, Cohen,
the mafia and everything.
And that took me back
to the 1960 election.
>>NOORY: Well, what
we're going to do
in this program
tonight, Mark, is
go through the scenarios
of John F Kennedy's murder,
Marilyn Monroe's
murder or how she died,
and Dorothy Kilgallen,
the reporter at the time.
And then we will show how
they're all intertwined,
aren't they?
>>SHAW: Exactly.
That's what I did in the new
book, "Collateral Damage."
It's got the longest
subtitle in history.
And I want to admit that I
kind of-- my investigation kind
of ass backwards--
I've done that a
lot in my life--
because I looked at JFK
assassination first,
then Dorothy Kilgallen's
death, and then Marilyn's.
You would normally
go Marilyn, 1962.
>>NOORY: '62.
>>SHAW: JFK, '63.
And then Dorothy, '65.
They died within 40
months of each other.
All of them died too young.
But I had already looked
at JFK and Dorothy,
so then I looked into
Marilyn's later on.
>>NOORY: Well, in those days, we
didn't have all the cable news
networks.
We didn't have 24-hour news.
But what we did have was
quality network newscasts.
>>SHAW: Sure did.
>>JAY WATSON: Good afternoon,
ladies and gentlemen.
You'll excuse the fact
that I'm out of breath,
but about 10 or 15 minutes
ago, a tragic thing,
from all indications
at this point,
has happened in
the city of Dallas.
Let me quote to you this.
And you'll excuse me
if I am out of breath.
A bulletin-- this is from
the United Press from Dallas.
President Kennedy and
Governor John Connally
have been cut down by assassins'
bullets in downtown Dallas.
They were riding in
an open automobile
when the shots were fired.
The president, his
limp body carried
in the arms of his
wife, Jacqueline,
has rushed to Parkland Hospital.
>>NOORY: He, by the way--
this is a very small story
that I want to pop in here
quickly-- was with WFAA
television in Dallas, Texas.
His name was Jay Watson.
He ended up hiring me in Detroit
as a television producer.
>>SHAW: My goodness.
What a connection.
>>NOORY: I did not know
his history until years
later that he was one of those
who broke the assassination
story out of Dallas.
>>SHAW: Did you notice that
they said by assassins?
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>SHAW: Not assassin.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>SHAW: I'd never seen
that clip before, but see,
logically speaking,
I mean, you gotta
get into this whole
Oswald alone craziness,
but right away I think
the feeling was it
had to be more than one person.
And the proof is right
there, assassins.
>>NOORY: Well, let's set the
stage for John F Kennedy.
The guy wins a tremendous
election, but he has help.
His father gets
the mob involved.
They need Illinois.
They need West Virginia.
And all of a sudden,
the mob goes to work.
And of course, they want favors.
What happened?
>>SHAW: Well, we talk about
fixing elections today,
but boy, this was a dinger.
Joe Kennedy wanted to be
president of the United States,
you know, the patriarch that
I wrote about in my book,
"The Poison Patriarch."
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>SHAW: And he wanted
to be president.
But you know, he was
ambassador to Great Britain.
That was going to
be a stepping stone.
But he got too close, was too
nice to pacify Adolf Hitler.
So when he came back, that
reputation had been tarnished.
>>NOORY: As a lot of American
businessmen had done.
>>SHAW: Exactly.
Including Henry Ford.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>SHAW: There were others, too.
>>NOORY: Banks and
everything else.
>>SHAW: So he came back
to the United States,
well, if I can't
be president, I'm
going to make my sons president,
all my power, all my money,
everything else.
First up was Joe Kennedy Jr,
but he died in World War II.
So now it's Jack
Kennedy for four years--
>>NOORY: Bobby.
>>SHAW: --Bobby Kennedy
for four years and--
>>NOORY: And Ted.
>>SHAW: --Ted
Kennedy four years.
And people think I'm
crazy when I say that,
but that was Joe's feeling--
>>NOORY: That was his thinking.
>>SHAW: --that
that would happen.
>>NOORY: That was his mentality.
>>SHAW: First, you've got
to win the '60 election.
And they knew,
like you said, they
were going to lose
Illinois and West Virginia.
And so what did Joe,
a smart guy, do?
He called his friend,
Frank Sinatra,
who had ties to the mafia guys--
Sam Giancana, Frank
Costello, Carlos Marcello--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>SHAW: --we'll talk about all
those guys-- and said, look,
we need some help.
And then also, we might be able
to use Mayor Daley in Chicago,
who's as corrupt as anybody.
They ended up winning
those two states,
but it was a deal
with the devil,
because basically Joe
promised those guys,
you help us win the
election in '60,
we'll leave you alone
when we get in office.
>>NOORY: And it was such a
narrow victory over Nixon,
wasn't it?
>>SHAW: I think it's
the closest in history.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
It was just enough,
just enough votes--
>>SHAW: That's right.
>>NOORY: --to take it.
So the mob figures
they owe us a favor.
We got this guy
elected president.
>>SHAW: Yeah.
>>NOORY: All of a sudden,
father Joe says to Jack,
I want Bobby Kennedy as
your attorney general.
He dictated it.
>>SHAW: He sure did.
>>NOORY: And of course,
they did whatever
father Joe wanted him to do.
Bobby Kennedy becomes
the attorney general.
And the first thing
out of the box
is he decides to go
after the same people who
put his brother in office.
>>SHAW: And it was
predictable because you
know about the McClellan
racketeering hearings
when Jack Kennedy
was on the panel
and Bobby Kennedy
was the lead counsel.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>SHAW: And so Bobby grew
to hate those mafioso who
appeared and took the Fifth
Amendment, including James
Hoffa, who you interviewed.
>>NOORY: And they put
Bobby down on the stand--
>>SHAW: Oh, absolutely.
>>NOORY: --and made him
look like a little runt.
>>SHAW: Made fun of him, things
like that and everything.
So what did Bobby do?
He wrote this book,
"The Enemy Within."
And in here he says,
basically, about the mafioso--
and this is really
what triggered the JFK
assassination, in my opinion--
"they have the look
of Al Capone's men--
they are sleek, often bilious
and fat, or lean and cold
in heart.
They have the smooth
faces and cruel eyes
of gangsters that wore the
same rich clothes, the diamond
ring, the jeweled
watch, the strongly
sweet-smelling perfume."
You can't treat
those kind of people,
who just helped your brother get
into the White House, that way.
And so it was
predictable when he
went after them, and
especially this Carlos Marcello
that I talked about before.
>>NOORY: And so the
wording was we can't just
go after Bobby because
brother Jack will
continue to come after us.
So let's get the head of
the dog, the president.
>>SHAW: Right.
You know, there's all these
other theories out there,
and I respect all of
them, but if you really
look at logic and motive
with regard to this, Marcelo,
what did Bobby do?
He deported him to the
jungles of Guatemala.
And here's this--
>>NOORY: They grabbed him.
>>SHAW: Yeah, grabbed
him illegally.
>>NOORY: And then they just
grabbed the guy and took him.
>>SHAW: And took him on
a plane to Guatemala,
where he almost died.
>>NOORY: And dumped him there.
>>SHAW: Right.
They get him back in the United
States, somehow or another,
and then as the end
of 1963 comes along,
they're going to
deport him again.
And he's in a court
in New Orleans charged
with racketeering.
Well, it just makes a lot
of sense regard to motive.
I can't let Bobby Kennedy
continue to do this to me.
But you're exactly
right, George.
You're a curious guy.
You can't go ahead
and kill Bobby Kennedy
because Jack Kennedy will
come after you with everything
the government has.
But if you kill Jack
Kennedy, then Bobby Kennedy
will be powerless.
And that's exactly
what happened.
So I always looked at
the JFK assassination
differently than anybody.
And I'm not the smartest
person in the world,
but look at it as to
why Bobby Kennedy wasn't
killed instead of
why Jack Kennedy was,
and that changes everything.
>>NOORY: There are two people
who have investigated the JFK
assassination brilliantly.
You are one of them.
The other is the late Mark Lane.
>>SHAW: Yes.
>>NOORY: He was on top of
this way before anybody,
and ought to be commended
for what he did.
>>SHAW: Absolutely.
And to take that a
bit further, we're
going to talk about
Dorothy Kilgallen.
He is the only one that she
shared her JFK assassination
information with.
And I regret it
to this day that I
was a few days short
of interviewing
Mark Lane when he died.
>>NOORY: Oh my God,
wouldn't you have loved
to have met Dorothy Kilgallen?
>>SHAW: Oh my God.
>>NOORY: And gotten the
information she got?
She was a dedicated reporter.
And that's what got
her probably killed.
>>SHAW: Well, I
never knew about her.
Most people who are
watching will remember her
from "What's My Line,"
the television show, where
she was a star panelist.
That was watched by 10 million
people every Sunday night--
>>NOORY: Oh, it
was the top show--
>>SHAW: --on CBS.
Exactly.
>>NOORY: --on Sunday.
>>SHAW: She had a syndicated
column in the New York Journal
American.
200 newspapers
across the country.
>>NOORY: From Hearst, right?
>>SHAW: Yeah, when people
actually read the newspaper.
She had a radio show listened
to by a million people.
There's a photograph of her
at the Dr. Sam Sheppard case,
standing in the middle
of the courtroom
with all the other
reporters around her.
And she handled the Charles
Lindbergh baby kidnapping case.
She was a big deal.
The New York Post called her
the most powerful female voice
in America.
This was a college dropout,
who overcame all the gender
obstacles and all
of that to rise
to the top of her profession.
And when she took on the
JFK assassination, obviously
she had the best sources.
And as you know,
George, she ended up
at the Jack Ruby trial.
>>NOORY: She did, and
was the only reporter
to have interviewed Jack Ruby.
>>SHAW: Right.
On the website
thedorothykilgallenstory.org,
there is Joe Tonahill, the
co-counsel for Melvin Belli,
in a video interview
talking about how
that interview
with Ruby happened.
They set it up behind the
railing at the Ruby trial.
She sat in the front row.
And then she interviewed
Ruby, and Ruby then
told her a lot of information.
Unfortunately, we
don't know exactly what
happened because when Dorothy
died, as we'll talk about,
her file was missing.
But that was the
link to Jack Ruby.
She didn't look at--
what did she do next?
She didn't look
at LBJ in Dallas.
She didn't go to Washington,
look into the military complex.
She didn't go to Miami to
look into the Cuban situation.
She went to New
Orleans because she
had connected Ruby with
Marcello and, I believe, Oswald.
And obviously, in
the book that I
wrote, the bestseller "The
Reporter Who Knew Too Much,"
she was the reporter
who knew too much.
And she died just months later.
>>NOORY: And Jim Garrison
was in on finding out
what was going on, too.
He knew something was
out of New Orleans.
>>SHAW: He just missed it.
>>NOORY: Yep.
He came so close.
>>SHAW: If you watch the JFK
movie, which I'm not a fan of,
but they have this conference
in Garrison's office,
and he's talking
to his subordinates
about where do we
go, what do we do.
And everybody wants to
go after Clay Shaw, which
didn't work out.
And one of them says,
well, wait a minute,
we've got to go after Marcello,
he's right here in New Orleans.
And Garrison says, ah, no,
we're going to leave him alone.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Well, Dorothy dies in 1965.
>>SHAW: Correct.
>>NOORY: In 1956, one of the
top CBS programs at the time
was with the great
newsman Edward R Murrow
called "Person to Person."
He had an opportunity to
talk with Dorothy Kilgallen.
Let's take a look at
this, because it'll
give us a perspective
of what she was like.
>>EDWARD MURROW:
Dorothy, if you had
to be confined to
one job of the many
that you do, which would it be?
>>DOROTHY KILGALLEN: Well,
Ed, I love television.
I have so much fun on "What's
My Line" playing the game,
and I love our morning
radio program, too.
But I think that I
would have to settle
for my first love and my true
love, the newspaper business.
It still has me and
always will, I think.
I hope.
>>MURROW: Well, looking
back at this long career
of yours in print, all the way
from covering murder stories
to racing around the
world in aeroplanes, what
do you consider your big story?
>>KILGALLEN: Well,
it wasn't a scoop
because everybody was
there, but the story I
loved most with the coronation
of Queen Elizabeth II.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
And that was her husband
flanked on her right.
>>SHAW: I'm sorry, George, I
get emotional watching that.
This was a wonderful woman,
one of the finest reporters
to have ever lived.
The integrity of
that woman, and they
killed her because she
was too close to the truth
about the JFK assassination.
The same thing with Marilyn.
She should have never
died, either, these two
remarkable women.
I'm sorry, but that just--
it never should have happened.
>>NOORY: What do you
think she knew, Mark?
What do you think she knew?
>>SHAW: I think that she really,
through her diligent reporting
and going to New Orleans--
you know, we can
talk about that trip.
She took her hairdresser
with her, Mark Sinclair.
He was going to
do her hair there.
And they got there, and
he went to the hotel.
And she went out, and
she met who she later
said was the best source that
she could find about the JFK
assassination.
OK?
Then she calls the
hotel and tells him,
you go back to New York City,
and you don't tell anybody
that I was there.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>SHAW: And you were there.
And so he goes back there.
And then after
she gets back, she
says to him, if the
wrong people knew
what I know about the
JFK assassination,
it would cost me my life.
I've bought a gun, and
I'm afraid for my family.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>SHAW: She was too
close to the truth.
I think the book that she was
writing for Random House would
have nailed Carlos Marcello
as orchestrating the JFK
assassination, and it would
have shown that J Edgar Hoover
covered up the assassination.
Well, that just couldn't happen.
And they set her
up for the kill,
you know, poisoned her
body with barbiturates,
which I show how that happened
in "Collateral Damage."
Then they cover it up.
There's no investigation
of any kind.
And unfortunately, she
disappears for 50 years,
until I find out about her while
I'm investigating Melvin Belli.
And then I look into her
life and times and her death,
and in some ways--
I'm going to brag a little--
I kind of brought
her back to life,
where people found out about
who this remarkable woman was.
>>NOORY: Do you believe
in the afterlife?
>>SHAW: Oh, absolutely.
I mean--
>>NOORY: Do you think
there's a connection there?
>>SHAW: Oh, yes.
And I think what has to
happen to those people that
don't, they have to be open.
You have to be open to this.
Why isn't there?
And Dorothy Kilgallen
is a perfect example.
I just got a chill saying this.
But I will tell you right
now, she was my patron saint.
She was my guiding light.
The moment that I started
to look into the JFK
assassination, she
took me on paths
that I would have never
gone after otherwise.
It was just like she had
chosen me to write her story.
I felt that.
I have a photograph of her
right up near my writing table.
When I look at her, I feel
like she's kind of there.
She's talking to me.
But I've had that
happen with other--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>SHAW: --books
of mine, as well.
All of my titles for my
books, almost 30 of them now,
come to me in the
middle of the night.
Well, that's not
just a coincidence.
You know, "The
Poison Patriarch,"
"Down for the Count"
about the Mike Tyson
trial, "Miscarriage of Justice"
about the spy Jonathan Pollard.
>>NOORY: "The Reporter
Who Knew Too Much."
>>SHAW: "The Reporter
That's not a happenstance.
So I'm the first person to
tell you that I welcome that.
And many times, too, I'll tell
you, I got stuck in my books
about the JFK assassination.
Then I'd go to bed, wake up
in the middle of the night,
and somehow--
>>NOORY: And have the answer.
>>SHAW: --or
another, here it was.
>>NOORY: So she was
a bulldog, too, Mark.
She just went after
every lead she could.
What was it that
made her convinced
that there was a conspiracy
involved with the JFK
assassination?
>>SHAW: Well, I don't like
to use that word too much,
but I think plot to
kill the president,
she led me right to the
Jack Ruby trial transcripts.
And amazing, nobody
ever knew about them.
You know, they were there.
I missed it all.
All this was in plain sight.
Dorothy wrote columns, "the
Oswald file must not close".
Ruby is a star at last.
She's in the front row.
She's going the
opposite direction
from J Edgar Hoover's
Oswald alone,
Oswald alone theory.
But the Jack Ruby trial
transcripts, when I found them,
I just screamed.
>>NOORY: How did you find them?
>>SHAW: Well, there was a lawyer
down in Fresno, California who
picked up "The Reporter Who
Knew Too Much" at five o'clock
in the afternoon, told me he
read it by midnight, and said,
I have a gift for you, I found
the Ruby trial transcripts.
And I thought, duh, Mark,
why didn't you find them?
He sent them to me.
2,000 pages, and I looked
at every single one.
And it was shocking to me
the kind of things I found,
just like this
excerpt right here.
Just look at this.
This is an eyewitness account.
And these are the most
credible documents in history
because all of these people
were there when the JFK
assassination took place.
And so it's a parking lot
owner across from Jack Ruby's
Carousel Lounge.
Ruby comes over the day that
he's going to shoot Oswald.
He's on the
telephone, and he says
the conversation,
I understand it,
was about the immediate
transfer of Oswald
from the city to
the county jail.
Mr. Ruby informed whoever
he was talking to the people
to cut flowers and
things and so on.
For what?
The transfer was delayed.
Now, did Ruby say anything in
reference to whether or not,
concerning whether or not
he would be there or not?
What did he say on that?
He told whoever it
was he was talking
to that he would be there.
He would be there, yes.
And then I found--
so obviously, he
just didn't happen
to be by the basement at the
Dallas Police Department.
He'd planned on being there.
He was stalking Oswald.
Then he says, I was going
to make like a reporter,
in these documents, to
get into the basement--
>>NOORY: But all
the cops knew him.
>>SHAW: --and I'm going to
use my pals at the police
department to help me get there.
>>NOORY: They all got him in
because they all knew the guy.
They knew he wasn't a reporter.
>>SHAW: Oh, yeah.
Dorothy wrote a
column about that,
because when it came out
about the Carousel and Ruby,
a lot of the acts that she knew
about in New York City said,
well, I played the Carousel,
you know, Ruby's bar,
and it was filled with police.
He let them all in there free.
>>NOORY: So let's
assume the mob has
told Ruby you have
got to kill Oswald,
because even though he
may have been a patsy,
he knows what the plan was.
He was part of this somehow.
We've got to get him
and take him out.
>>SHAW: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Did Jack
Ruby know that this
was a one-way trip for
him, that he wasn't
going to get out of this?
>>SHAW: No, they--
>>NOORY: And they had a death
penalty in Texas, didn't they?
>>SHAW: --promised
him-- you know,
what I've been able to
show in "The Reporter Who
Knew Too Much," then
"Denial of Justice,"
now "Collateral Damage,"
where I connect everything,
is that Melvin Belli
was involved first.
>>NOORY: The lawyer.
>>SHAW: He knew about it.
And the reason I
know is because I
had an eyewitness
that I examined
for "Melvin Belli,
King of the Courtroom,"
who told me they were having
dinner at Fisherman's Wharf
when a waiter came
up and said, you'll
never guess what happened,
Ruby shot Oswald.
Belli said, well, now I
have to represent Ruby.
So I think Ruby was on call.
And so he would have
represented Oswald if he lived.
And they shut up Oswald.
Now, Ruby is alive.
They've got to shut up--
>>NOORY: They've
got to shut him up.
>>SHAW: --Ruby.
So he uses that
defense of insanity.
He uses it to-- won't
let him testify.
And you know, during the
final argument for Jack--
>>NOORY: They wanted
to lose that case.
Of course, it was obvious
that he killed him.
>>SHAW: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: We saw it on
network television.
>>SHAW: And in the final
argument, not once, as you'll
see in the Ruby
trial transcripts,
did Ruby ask or plea for Ruby
to stay alive, to not be killed,
to not be, you know,
a death penalty there.
>>NOORY: Death penalty.
>>SHAW: And so I think it
all made sense through there.
And I think that's what
Dorothy figured out,
that it was a plot to
kill the president all
the way through there.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
So she figures this all out.
All of a sudden, what happens?
Who decides to bump her?
Because she's going to write
a book with Random House
that her friend Bennett Cerf,
who was on "What's My Line,"
was the publisher of--
>>SHAW: Right.
>>NOORY: --and she was going
to do a tell-all, wasn't she?
>>SHAW: Well, back
in those days,
we didn't have Kinko's,
so she couldn't
make a copy of this
investigative file.
In the "Collateral Damage"
book and the others,
I have a picture of her in
the courtroom with this file
against her chest.
She's in Daley Plaza.
I mean, she was there.
With all due respect to
all of these other authors
and so-called experts
and everything
that have written about
the assassination,
including me before I got
involved with Dorothy,
they weren't there.
Dorothy was there.
That's why she's so credible.
So she's got this file.
She's carrying it around.
She's working on the book.
She shows it to
Bennett Cerf the night
before she is killed and died.
And we can talk about
how that happened.
And so now she's got
all this, and she's
going to take it into the media
with the book and all of that.
And people have said
to me, well, she knew
she was in danger, didn't she?
Why didn't she do
something about it?
Well, she felt like she was
at the top of the world.
She--
>>NOORY: Untouchable?
>>SHAW: Untouchable.
And so nobody could do that.
They did try to
scare her, though.
About two weeks
before she died, there
was a photograph of her son
Carey, who she dearly loved,
on the front page of one
of the New York newspapers
running across Central Park.
And so she knew that
somebody had followed him-
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>SHAW: --in there.
And I think that was--
>>NOORY: Watching the family.
>>SHAW: --the warning.
Dorothy, back off--
>>NOORY: Back off.
>>SHAW: --or we're
going to go forward.
But she didn't back off.
>>NOORY: The CIA kept a
file on Dorothy, as well.
What was their interest, Mark?
>>SHAW: The CIA document
that I only found recently
and I'll have in
"Collateral Damage,"
and what it showed me was that
they had been trailing her
for years.
I found-- there's one document
with her signature on it.
>>NOORY: What did
they want with her?
>>SHAW: I think they thought she
was a threat to them, you know?
Because she was so big,
so powerful, you know?
>>NOORY: And knew too much.
>>SHAW: And knew too
much and everything.
And so the one has her
signature on a document
about Cuban exiles.
There's one file, or
one column that she
wrote about Frank Sinatra's
love affair with Marilyn Monroe.
>>NOORY: Oh, and Frank
hated her, by the way.
>>SHAW: And hated her.
>>NOORY: Hated her.
>>SHAW: Yes, exactly.
And so there's these
documents in here,
but they show that
they were trailing her,
the CIA, and the FBI,
as well, in their files.
So they thought of Dorothy
Kilgallen as a real threat
even before the JFK
assassination took place.
>>NOORY: What's so
bizarre about all of this,
Mark, is through all the
incredible things that
were going on in this time
period, the Cuban Missile
Crisis and all
these other things,
Kennedy still had
time to frolic around
and to play around
with all this.
And Dorothy knew all this.
She was friends
with Marilyn Monroe.
We'll get into her
situation in a second.
But she knew something, and
was going to release it,
because she kept telling people,
if people knew, as you just
said, what I know, I'd be dead.
>>SHAW: She was a blabbermouth.
>>NOORY: Why did she
decide to go public?
>>SHAW: Well, I think she
really believed-- you know,
she was a woman of the truth.
Like I've said to you,
you're a man of the truth.
She was a woman of the truth.
You know, she actually went
out there and found the facts
for a story, and then came
up with the conclusion
or the headline.
We do that backwards today.
They want the
sensational headline,
and then they'll fit the facts
to it or whatever that way.
And so she wasn't like that.
How many people around the
world have emailed me and looked
at all of my presentations
and everything on YouTube
and listened to your show
have said to me, God,
I wish we had a reporter
with the integrity of Dorothy
Kilgallen, or those
nightly newsmen
like Walter Cronkite or the--
>>NOORY: Edward R Murrow.
>>SHAW: Edward R Murrow,
those kind of people.
We don't have those kind
of people anymore, George.
>>NOORY: No, we don't.
We don't.
Without giving us
specific names,
give me the scenario of how
you think Dorothy was killed.
>>SHAW: Well, basically
they set her up.
They knew that she was
going to write this book,
and so she couldn't do that.
So what I believe happened
is the night before she died,
she met a mystery man, who
will be named in "Collateral
Damage," and they were at the--
>>NOORY: Who's still alive.
>>SHAW: Who's still alive.
And I tried to get him
prosecuted by the New York
Police Department, unfortunately
unsuccessfully yet.
But I'm going to keep after it.
They are at this hotel bar.
They're seen.
They're in the corner.
They're whispering
to each other.
And I believe that particular
person was Dorothy Kilgallen's
friend, even a lover perhaps.
She had shared her information
about the JFK assassination
with him because
it was a reporter,
and she believed he had
leaked it to the wrong people,
as she put it.
The wrong people.
So he then is there.
We believe that he either
did one of two things.
He emptied barbiturates into
her drink that she had there--
>>NOORY: He laced it.
>>SHAW: And I
found out because I
looked at the autopsy
for the first time, which
is in the book
"Collateral Damage," there
wasn't one barbiturate
in there, but three.
Or, he goes home with her and
she lets him in for a nightcap,
and then he poisoned her drink
with phenobarbital, Tuinal,
and Seconal.
>>NOORY: Where was
husband, Richard?
>>SHAW: Well, they
were estranged.
He was about two floors
up in her mansion
on East 68th Street.
>>NOORY: So this had
many floors to it.
>>SHAW: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: You can
literally hide, and nobody
would know you were in there.
>>SHAW: But I did find
the butler's housekeeper--
I mean, sorry,
butler's daughter,
who told me that her
father heard somebody
with Dorothy that night.
So it kind of confirmed
a bit of the idea
that there was
somebody with her.
So I think she was
killed at home.
She was left, then, in a
very mysterious situation,
as you know.
She had her hairpiece on,
her eyelashes, her makeup on,
found in a bedroom
she never slept in.
And then, basically,
what I believed
is that between when the
intruder, the person who
set her up and did the
barbiturates, when he left,
after that, she crawled
probably into the bathroom
and died right there.
>>NOORY: Oh, and
died right there.
>>SHAW: And was found the next
morning by her hairdresser.
>>NOORY: Those drugs, at
the time, were very lethal.
>>SHAW: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: If you took too much.
>>SHAW: The combination
would have been.
>>NOORY: And what happened to
her notes and her book and all
that information?
Where did it go?
>>SHAW: Well, they disappeared.
And the--
>>NOORY: How convenient.
>>SHAW: Yeah, very convenient.
And the butler's daughter
told me-- and I'm
trying to be able
to confirm all this,
and I think I have-- that the
next morning after Dorothy
died, FBI agents
or people who said
they were FBI agents
stormed the townhouse
and took all of her papers,
documents, and everything else
like that.
And I think they took that file.
I've tried to get it through
Freedom of Information requests
from the New York Police
Department and the FBI,
so far unsuccessfully.
It's kind of like the
government not giving us
the JFK assassination documents,
because I kind of believe
that those documents,
Dorothy's documents
might be in those
papers, as well.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Now let's move on
to Marilyn Monroe.
Mark, she was a
superstar of her day.
She came up from nothing, but
she made herself a success.
She was a good actress.
She knew how to sing.
And she somehow caught the
eye of our president, John F
Kennedy, because of an
introduction by Frank Sinatra.
>>SHAW: Frank Sinatra, yeah.
>>NOORY: Thank you, Frank.
>>SHAW: The journey to
Marilyn is very strange.
As I said, I wasn't
going to write this book.
But the very first thing that
triggered all of this when I
decided to-- was Marilyn a
friend of Dorothy Kilgallen's?
Well, I didn't know.
I think I had written before
that maybe Marilyn had gone
to parties at
Dorothy Kilgallen's.
>>NOORY: And they
ran into each other.
>>SHAW: And things like that.
But then I found this photo
that I think we can look at.
And it was a photograph of
Marilyn Monroe and Dorothy
Kilgallen together.
They were on the set of a
movie, "Let's Make Love"
with Yves Montand in 1960--
>>NOORY: Who?
>>SHAW: Montand.
>>SHAW: Yeah.
You remember him,
the French actor?
>>NOORY: I don't
remember him at all.
>>SHAW: Well--
>>NOORY: That's the picture.
>>SHAW: --here's a
photograph of them.
And they're at 20th Century Fox.
And so, OK, wait a minute they
know each other, all right?
And so you know, I'd always been
a little suspicious of Marilyn
Monroe supposedly
committing suicide,
or what they called
probable suicide.
And so I wondered about that.
>>NOORY: Well, that was the
so-called official report.
>>SHAW: Exactly it was.
But I wondered about that.
And so I thought, well,
did Dorothy Kilgallen
write any columns about
Marilyn Monroe before she died?
Maybe I should look into that.
And there's this
column that came up.
And when we look
at it, you'll see
that it was the real
curious point to me
that there was something
wrong with the fact
that Marilyn would
have been in the mood
to have committed suicide.
MM has Hollywood talking again.
Marilyn Monroe's health
has been improving.
She's been attending
select Hollywood parties,
has become the talk
of the town again.
In California, they're
circulating a photograph that
certainly isn't as bare
as the famous calendar,
but is very interesting, and
she's cooking in the sex appeal
department, too.
She's proved vastly alluring
to a handsome gentleman who
is a bigger name than Joe
DiMaggio in his heyday.
So don't write off
Marilyn as finished.
>>NOORY: And that person, of
course, was John F Kennedy.
And when she sang for
him at his birthday,
the people were just aghast.
>>PETE HAMMOND: Her most
famous film appearance
could well be when she sang
happy birthday to John F
Kennedy.
And that piece of
film is truly iconic.
Happy birthday, Mr. President.
>>PETER LAWFORD: Mr. President,
the late Marilyn Monroe.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
>>MARILYN MONROE:
(SINGING) Happy birthday--
>>HAMMOND: To look
at her that night,
you would think there's
absolutely nothing wrong.
You look at this woman who seems
at the height of her powers
during that.
And now that we
know in retrospect
that there was much more
to this relationship
with the president,
it's quite interesting.
>>MONROE: Everybody,
happy birthday.
>>HAMMOND: They had
to keep announcing
her, here's Marilyn Monroe,
here's Marilyn Monroe,
and they finally announce
here's the late Marilyn Monroe.
Six months later, she was
the late Marilyn Monroe
because her death
happened in August.
>>THEODORE CURPHEY:
It is my conclusion
that the death of
Marilyn Monroe was
caused by a self-administered
overdose of sedative drugs,
and that the mode of
death is probable suicide.
>>NOORY: Now, what the world
did not know at the time, Mark,
that she was always frolicking
with Bobby Kennedy, as well,
the president's brother.
>>SHAW: Well, when I read
Dorothy's column about Marilyn,
a bigger name than Joe DiMaggio,
who you know is the Yankee Hall
of Famer and everything--
>>NOORY: The Yankee clipper.
>>SHAW: --and I thought, OK.
Now, I did go to
those autopsies,
and found differences with
the autopsy and certificate
of death and everything.
I think I may have
mentioned also,
and I have it in
"Collateral Damage," when
Dr. Cyril Wecht, who you
know, the forensic scientist--
>>NOORY: I know Cyril.
>>SHAW: --said to me that--
>>NOORY: Great pathologist.
>>SHAW: --when he looked
at Marilyn's autopsy,
I've conducted 16,000
autopsies, I've
never seen a verdict
of probable suicide.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SHAW: She probably died of
suicide, that's the verdict.
But anyway, OK, now,
if she didn't commit
suicide, who are the suspects?
Well, John Kennedy, OK?
But what I found out
is that Papa Joe,
who always ran things, Joe
Kennedy said to John Kennedy,
dump that.
That's done.
You're going to run
for president in '64.
>>NOORY: She's going to kill--
>>SHAW: I don't want to see you.
>>NOORY: --your reelection.
>>SHAW: So then I thought, well,
who's the next biggest name?
Bobby Kennedy.
And that led me on a trail
right to Bobby Kennedy,
because I found
out that this book
that he had written
about the mafioso
that I talk about before--
>>NOORY: "The Enemy Within."
>>SHAW: --the
summer of '62, he's
in LA trying to get a movie
made over at 20th Century Fox.
I found ledgers where he is
at the Beverly Hills Hotel.
So he's there the whole summer.
And then I found these
two damning documents.
One was a letter from
Jean Kennedy Smith, JFK
and RFK's sister.
It was sent to Marilyn.
We understand you and Bobby are
the new item, exclamation mark.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>SHAW: When he comes back to
New York, when he comes back
to the East Coast,
please come with him.
I found a CIA document that was
exposed the day before Marilyn
died that said Bobby Kennedy
has been having a torrid love
affair with Marilyn Monroe.
In fact, he has told Marilyn
that he will divorce Ethel
and marry Marilyn.
>>NOORY: Unbelievable.
>>SHAW: So you can imagine
this Marilyn Monroe.
Dorothy wrote a column
about her craving love,
and her three divorces
and all of that.
First, it's JFK.
And she obviously
had sex with him,
and he must have told
her he cared about her.
He dumps her.
>>NOORY: He felt like
she was passed along.
>>SHAW: Right.
>>NOORY: Right?
>>SHAW: And then she's
by the telephone,
she can't get Bobby Kennedy to
go ahead and answer her calls.
She ends up at an event up in
Lake Tahoe, at a lodge up there
the week before she dies.
Frank Sinatra is there,
Peter Lawford is there,
all these people are there.
She feels like she's
going to be passed around.
She's had it.
And she made the same mistake
that Dorothy Kilgallen made.
And this is one of
the similarities
in "Collateral Damage."
She was a blabbermouth.
I'm going to the
media, I'm going
to talk about the
Kennedys, and all of that,
just like Dorothy
talked about her book.
And what she said is
in a CIA document.
And this is the one
that caused her death,
no question about it,
because what did she say?
They talked about UFOs, the
similarities between Marilyn,
Dorothy, and JFK's obsession--
>>NOORY: They loved it.
>>SHAW: --with UFOs.
They were obsessed with it.
>>SHAW: And we should talk
about that in a minute.
But more, it said the
subject, Marilyn Monroe,
is going to the media about
the Kennedy love affairs.
And this was the kicker, though.
And also, she is going to
the media about matters
involving JFK and his plans to
have Fidel Castro assassinated.
Those are matters of
national security, either
through pillow talk or
the Kennedy boys trying
to impress her or whatever.
And you can imagine,
there's no way
they can let her go to the media
with that kind of information.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
On Gaia's program "Open
Minds," Regina Meredith
interviewed a psychic crime
fighter named Robbie Thomas.
That has a little
bit to do with this.
Let's take a look.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
You have beings
that you're working with that
are assisting you and showing
you what you need
in your higher self.
>>ROBBIE THOMAS: Right.
>>MEREDITH: But sometimes
the actual victim
comes to you, too.
>>THOMAS: Yeah.
And you know how their spirit,
our spirit is multidimensional.
A lot of people say and think
this, this stays within.
But our spirit is
more than that, right?
Many realms.
And we encounter all of it.
Cesar Ivan Cano, a young
boy, all I was given
was a photograph.
And I'm in Canada,
and he's murdered
in Louisville, Kentucky.
He's missing, can
you please help.
Absolutely.
So they sent me a picture.
All I got was his name, Cesar.
And I'm looking, and I'm
begging for information.
So I'm trying to
tap into my guides.
And I prayed to God and I prayed
to my family, who can help me,
and my guides and angels.
I start to get
certain information.
And I'm writing it down.
And repeat offender, two boys.
So I write that down.
Then I start to ask
his spirit or his,
belonging to him, spirit guides,
everything who ties to him,
stadium lights, like, off.
And all this is on my website.
You can see my
automatic hand drawing
on my website about this.
>>MEREDITH: Yes, we
can see the pictures.
>>THOMAS: So I draw the four
stadium lights, like, off.
And apparently, that night, they
were off when he went missing.
So there's the four
stadium lights.
I said, give me a name.
John.
So by the stadium
lights, I put "John."
Now, if you stood on the
porch of the murderer's home,
and you looked directly
through the little clearing,
Papa John Stadium's right there.
So I ask, I need more.
Where exactly are you?
And I see construction,
orange vests.
They were doing
construction right
in front of the murderer's
home, and they had the flags,
the men with the orange vests.
Apparently, Cesar was playing
with the flags, pulling them
out, ended up in his home,
and that's what happened.
>>NOORY: The point of
that clip, Mark, is you,
too, have had some kind of
supernatural experiences
with Dorothy, haven't you?
>>SHAW: I want to give
you example of that, too.
With Dorothy, no question she
wanted me to write her story.
I wanted to think she wanted
me to write Marilyn's story.
This is a "Photoplay" magazine
from way back in 1962, OK?
It doesn't even have
anything on the cover that
would give you any
idea that there
was anything important in here.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SHAW: OK?
But Dorothy, I think,
wanted me to read this,
and I think Marilyn did, too.
"One year, later
Marilyn Monroe's killer
is still at large."
Now, see if this portrait
gives you an idea--
>>NOORY: Who wrote that?
>>SHAW: --of who the killer was.
It was a little known
European journalist.
I've never been able to find
her, didn't find out much about
her.
Her name was Donaldson.
Here's what she wrote.
"You can see him in a crowd.
You can reach out and touch
him, because he is a great man,
famous all over the world.
And maybe that
touch will give you
at least a small part of him.
You can see him on television
or even in a movie theater,
and you will look
up to him and think
how lucky his wife is
to be married to him
and how lucky the children
are to have him as a father.
And maybe you'll think,
I wish I were his wife.
You can read about him almost
every day in the Washington
newspaper--"
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>SHAW: --"in magazines,
and you will think,
this is a good person.
This is a truly honorable
man, but while you will never
read, never see, never know
is that this man is a killer.
He is the man who
killed Marilyn Monroe."
>>NOORY: And we know who
she was talking about?
>>SHAW: Absolutely.
Bobby Kennedy.
And the article
goes on without ever
naming him, talks about
all the children and Ethel
and all that.
This was all out there,
but nobody ever found it.
And so this--
>>NOORY: Was--
>>SHAW: --came to me just like
that came to that gentleman
there.
I think I was supposed to find
this "Photoplay" magazine,
George.
>>NOORY: Maybe so.
>>SHAW: Absolutely.
So where are we today with
Dorothy Kilgallen's murder?
>>SHAW: Well, with Dorothy--
you know, and I'd
connect this in--
I've been trying to
get the NYPD cold case
squad to investigate her death.
Detective Phillip Panzarella
got in touch with me
about three months
ago and told me
he was going to look into it.
I haven't heard from him since.
The parallel there is
the one with Marilyn.
And I do show in
"Collateral Damage"
how I believe that
she was killed.
I have my own
theory in the book,
and then I've recently come
across two other accounts that
confirm exactly what
I wrote about the fact
that Bobby Kennedy and Peter
Lawford were at Marilyn's home
on the afternoon she died,
tried to talk her in-- talk
her out of going to the media.
>>NOORY: Tried to
calm her down, right?
>>SHAW: Right.
She refused, and then
my account basically
shows how operatives
of Bobby Kennedy's came
to Marilyn's home.
I used clues from the autopsy
that people can read about
and how, then,
they overcame her,
how they went ahead and used
these barbiturates to infect
her body, not by her ingesting
them-- by another method.
Then I found a woman
in Massachusetts
recently, who gave almost the
same account to me from what
she knew from her father
and the two men who told her
about exactly how
Bobby had been there
and had left the window
open in the bedroom,
so these operatives
could get in.
>>NOORY: To let these
perpetrators in.
>>SHAW: And then there is a
relative of Joe DiMaggio's,
who has an account that
I've now come across,
who talks about the same thing.
But he even goes
further with the fact
that Joe DiMaggio's mother was
on the telephone with Marilyn
Monroe.
They were talking
and everything,
and then she heard an
intruder or intruders.
She heard a scream.
She heard a name,
and then Marilyn--
the phone kind of went dead,
but it was never hung up.
And as you know, Marilyn was
found with the phone in her--
in her hand when she died.
So those accounts show the
means of what happened there.
I sent my book, "Collateral
Damage," a 375-page evidence
report pointing to Robert
F Kennedy as not only being
complicit in Marilyn's
death, but it
being covered up by the LAPD.
And the autopsy--
I don't know if you
know Noguchi who
handled that, Thomas Noguchi,
decided afterwards he had
made a few mistakes, George.
>>NOORY: Just a few.
>>SHAW: He actually
forgot to look
at some of Marilyn's
inner organs,
so that just-- the autopsy
was just botched there.
If you ever want to
cover up a murder,
just falsify the autopsies--
happened in all three cases--
JFK's, Marilyn, and Dorothy.
And so I sent all this to
the LA district attorney,
George Gascon, demanding that he
reinvestigate Marilyn's death.
To date, that hasn't happened.
>>NOORY: And what
are the odds, Mark,
of three people who are
intertwined in their lives
all dying within several
years of each other?
That defies logic.
>>SHAW: You're right on point.
It does.
And I'm amazed at it myself.
Within 40 months, you've got--
Marilyn died at 36,
JFK, 46, Dorothy, 52.
All of them died young.
>>NOORY: '62, '63, '65--
the years that all
three of them died.
>>SHAW: And you've got, then,
Bobby, obviously, dying in '68.
>>NOORY: '68.
>>SHAW: These were tragic,
tragic, violent times.
>>NOORY: How did we get
through as a people?
How did we make
it after all this?
>>SHAW: That's the relevance
of this book and the other ones
that I've written, I think.
Nobody asked questions.
They accepted J Edgar
Hoover's Oswald Alone theory.
>>NOORY: Who said that the
moment Kennedy was killed
that he was the lone assassin.
>>SHAW: Told the justice
department and everybody else,
don't let anybody think
it's anyone else, because--
he did that because if it's
a nut like Lee Harvey Oswald,
he and the FBI can't
be held responsible.
But if there's a plot
to kill the president--
>>NOORY: They should
have known about it.
>>SHAW: Yeah, then we get
to Dorothy's death, OK?
Well, there's no
way that anybody
asked any questions about that.
Why?
Because they were scared--
her family "What's
My Line" people,
her newspaper colleagues.
They were scared.
If they knew she was working
on the JFK assassination,
so if whoever killed JFK
is now coming after her,
they're not going to speak up.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>SHAW: And then
with Marilyn's death,
the truth was out
there everywhere.
I've got all of these accounts
in newspapers and these books
and everything else of
everybody screaming,
including Dorothy, that
it wasn't a suicide.
But you know what?
I don't think they gave
a damn about Marilyn.
They saw her as this dumb
blonde, which she wasn't.
She was-- she was a human being,
who loved and cared for people.
The only thing she ever
wanted to do was be a mother.
You talked about her upbringing.
And it was just sad, but nobody
really questioned anything.
And that is the
point of my books.
Stop and think.
Ask questions today,
especially when
the government's
involved or somebody as
powerful as the Kennedys.
>>NOORY: Mark Shaw, you are a
national treasure, my friend.
>>SHAW: Oh, my.
I don't know about that,
but thank you so much.
>>NOORY: Keep doing
what you're doing.
>>SHAW: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Thank you.
It's good to know that
somebody like Mark
Shaw, a dedicated
reporter and investigator,
won't let these stories go.
And so maybe the deaths of these
three individuals, one day,
will be vindicated.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]